Isolation Kernel Based Algorithms
=================================

Papers
------

* Point-Set Kernel Clustering
* Isolation Kernel Density Estimation 
* Isolation Kernel: The X Factor in Efficient and Effective Large Scale Online Kernel Learning


Convention
----------

CSV files: The last column contains the class label.


Data file format
----------------

The following file formats are supported (read/write). Note that the combined read and write operations on the same file are not supported due to the file format being text based. These file formats are indexed internally to allow random access (e.g., for sub-sampling).

* CSV - Comma delimited files which basically consist of numeric values separated by a comma and a string value for the class label.
* libSVM - Format used by the libSVM library

The following file formats are for internal use only. These formats do support read and write on the same file.

* memory - this format uses CPU memory only
* temporay files - this allow virtually unlimited storage for intermediate storage uses.


Development Environment
-----------------------

These source code releases are developed on an Arch Linux system. The GPU codes are tested on a Nvidia GeForce 1080 Ti. While some codes have been added to support Microsoft Windows, it is not a targetted platform.

The following tools are used during the develepment:

* GCC      - v9.3.0
* binutils - v2.35
* make     - v4.3
* qmake    - v3.1 (Just the qmake and related files)

* CUDA - v11.2 (only if you have a Nvidia GPU card)

Note: You do not need any of the QT libraries (e.g., GUI or CLI). To install qmake, on the Arch Linux, install qt5-base package.

Also note that if you do use the CUDA library, you will need to install the correct GCC version for CUDA.

To build the system use the following commands:

1. Go to the subdirectory containing the '.qmake.conf' file.
2. Create a sub-directory called 'build'.
3. Go to the 'build' sub-directory.
4. Execute 'qmake ..'

5. Execute 'make'

And the individual executeables are found in the corresponding sub-directories of the source code within the build sub-directory. Note that both 'debug' and 'release' version are built.


Temp Directory
--------------

Warning: Make sure that you have plenty of disk space for the storage of temp files. Depending on what parameters being used, the disk usage could be up and over 1 TiB.


Additional libraries
--------------------

The following are additional libraries that needs to be install:

* Eigen3 - Use by the Online Kernel Learning


Testing Framework
-----------------

A set of test datasets is generated by the framework. Algorithms in MATLAB uses these generated test datasets to produce some test results (as reference results). The target algorithms/routines have been checked against these reference results.

The following algorithms/routines have been checked by using this methodology.

Math Routines:
* compute_distance
* find_nearest_neighbour

Feature space algorithms:
* aNNE
* iNNE


Third party source code
-----------------------

* [queue]{https://github.com/cameron314/readerwriterqueue} is used as is
* [trace]{https://github.com/GPMueller/trace} is basically used as is
